README.md, before:

# tf-similar-sentences

#### Installation:
* Clone the repo:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/vineetm/tf-similar-sentences.git
    cd tf-similar-sentences/
    ```
    
* [Install Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/#macos). Create a new environment. Feel free to replace `tf-wiki` with name of your choice.    
    ```bash
    conda create -n tf-wiki python=3.7
    ```
    
* Install dependencies    
    ``` bash
    source activate tf-wiki
    (tf-wiki) pip install -r requirements.txt
    python -m spacy download en
    ```

#### Get English Wikipedia corpus 
This requires 15G of diskspace, and took us 2 hours. Speeds could wary. Feel free to replace the XML with [another version](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/). You should look for files ending in `pages-articles.xml.bz2`
    
```bash
cd code
(tf-wiki) chmod +x download_wiki.sh
(tf-wiki) ./download_wiki.sh
```

#### Extract Sentences 
We use [gensim.wikicorpus](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/corpora/wikicorpus.html) to parse XML. We replace default tokenizer to return sentences.

This required us about 8 hours on a system with 8 cores. More cores should work faster!
```bash
(tf-wiki) python extract_sentences.py -dump enwiki-20180601-pages-articles.xml.bz2 -text wiki.sentences.txt 
```
This results in about 91M sentences
```bash
(tf-wiki) wc -l wiki.sentences.txt
(tf-wiki) 91686995 wiki.sentences.txt
```

Further, extract unique sentences. We get about 53M sentences
```bash
(tf-wiki) python uniq_sentences.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt -uniq wiki.sentences.txt.uniq  
```
```bash
(tf-wiki) wc -l wiki.sentences.txt.uniq
(tf-wiki) 53464766 wiki.sentences.txt.uniq
```

#### Build Annoy Index
We use [Annoy Index](https://github.com/spotify/annoy) to index Wikipedia sentences. Note that this requires about 150GB of disk space and 120GB of RAM.
```bash
(tf-wiki) python build_annoy_index.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt.uniq -ann wiki.annoy.index   
```

#### Runtime Query
An interactive session can be fired as follows:
```bash
(tf-wiki) python find_similar_sentence.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt.uniq -ann wiki.annoy.index
```

#### Examples
`Input1`: The Japanese sample-return spacecraft Hayabusa2 arrives at the asteroid 162173 Ryugu.

`Output1`:
```
the extraterrestrial ship from deep space enters the solar system and abducts a boater on earth .
after a comet collides with the ship , dart and his crew discover a new planet beyond the orbit of pluto .
the crew are on an expedition on the mysterious planet krop tor , impossibly in orbit around a black hole .
hurtling on into deep space , jupiter 2 crash lands on an unknown planet .
first flyby of pluto , charon , nix , hydra , kerberos , and styx , first up - close images of pluto system , first images of pluto and charon 's surfaces , first spacecraft to explore the kuiper belt .
the fourth , and only , spaceship to return from mars holds an insane crew and a martian " furball " .
drax plans to fire it at earth from space .
voyager 2 sends back images of neptune and its system
young man floats in escape pod after spacecraft explodes in deep space .
crew returning from first manned moon expedition witnesses atomic war break out on earth .
```

`Input2`: Saudi Arabia lifts its ban on women driving.

`Output2:`
```
the campaign aims to ban saudi arabia from the olympics until it allows saudi arabian women to take part in sports .
in september 2017 , the saudi arabian government announced that women would receive the right to drive , effective june 2018 .
saudi arabia in 2015 .
furthermore , the saudis are blocking a proposed causeway project between qatar and the uae and a proposed gas pipeline project between qatar and kuwait , because of saudi objections , the kuwaitis are now turning to the iranians for gas .
saudi officials said that , if successful in qualifying , female competitors would be dressed " to preserve their dignity " .
in 2015 , al - waleed was criticised for offering to buy bentley cars for saudi fighter pilots involved in the saudi arabian - led intervention in yemen .
saudi arabia agreed to allow its women athletes to compete in the 2012 olympics for the first time , amidst speculation that the entire saudi team might have been disqualified on grounds of gender discrimination .
* * 280px defense of saudi arabia 1990–1991
after widespread rumors about saudi arabia going to purchase an entire atoll from maldives , saudi arabian embassy in maldives issued a statement against the rumors .
saudi royal family after welcoming the new king salman of saudi arabia , january 27 , 2015
```

`Input3`: Ice drilling allows scientists studying glaciers and ice sheets to gain access to what is beneath the ice

`Output3`:
```
ice melting on lake baikal - nasa earth observatory.jpg |spring ice melt underway on lake baikal , on 4 may : notice the ice - covered north , while much of the south already is ice - free .
the volcano protrudes from the west antarctic ice cap and is itself covered with ice in its summit area .
in addition to frozen water , mars ice caps also have frozen carbon dioxide , commonly known as dry ice .
sea ice at the north pole in 2006
a first chronology for the north greenland eemian ice drilling ( neem ) ice core .
the arctic is affected by current global warming , leading to arctic sea ice shrinkage , diminished ice in the greenland ice sheet , and arctic methane release as the permafrost thaws .
they proposed that changes in air circulation patterns have led to increased upwelling of warm , deep ocean water along the coast of antarctica and that this warm water has increased melting of floating ice shelves at the edge of the ice sheet .
greenland ice sheet
meanwhile , in the arctic , the frozen aurochs in an ice shelf start drifting into the ocean .
file : antarctic peninsula , the larsen ice shelf , and the sea ice covered waters around the region.jpg|clear view of the antarctic peninsula , the larsen ice shelf , and the sea ice covered waters around the region .
```

Commit message:

updated readme with medium blog post link

README.md, after:

# tf-similar-sentences
This code can be used to build a fast similar sentence retrieval system using any sentence corpus. The code contains all teh details pertaining to English Wikipedia corpus. 

Feel free to use your own favorite sentence corpus. 

There is a detailed [blog post on medium](https://medium.com/@vineet.mundhra/finding-similar-sentences-using-wikipedia-and-tensorflow-hub-dee2f52ed587) that explains the high level ideas in plain English.


#### Installation:
* Clone the repo:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/vineetm/tf-similar-sentences.git
    cd tf-similar-sentences/
    ```
    
* [Install Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/#macos). Create a new environment. Feel free to replace `tf-wiki` with name of your choice.    
    ```bash
    conda create -n tf-wiki python=3.6
    ```
    
* Install dependencies    
    ``` bash
    source activate tf-wiki
    (tf-wiki) pip install -r requirements.txt
    python -m spacy download en
    ```

#### Get English Wikipedia corpus 
This requires 15G of diskspace, and took us 2 hours. Speeds could wary. Feel free to replace the XML with [another version](https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/). You should look for files ending in `pages-articles.xml.bz2`
    
```bash
cd code
(tf-wiki) chmod +x download_wiki.sh
(tf-wiki) ./download_wiki.sh
```

#### Extract Sentences 
We use [gensim.wikicorpus](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/corpora/wikicorpus.html) to parse XML. We replace default tokenizer to return sentences.

This required us about 8 hours on a system with 8 cores. More cores should work faster!
```bash
(tf-wiki) python extract_sentences.py -dump enwiki-20180601-pages-articles.xml.bz2 -text wiki.sentences.txt 
```
This results in about 91M sentences
```bash
(tf-wiki) wc -l wiki.sentences.txt
(tf-wiki) 91686995 wiki.sentences.txt
```

Further, extract unique sentences. We get about 53M sentences
```bash
(tf-wiki) python uniq_sentences.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt -uniq wiki.sentences.txt.uniq  
```
```bash
(tf-wiki) wc -l wiki.sentences.txt.uniq
(tf-wiki) 53464766 wiki.sentences.txt.uniq
```

#### Build Annoy Index
We use [Annoy Index](https://github.com/spotify/annoy) to index Wikipedia sentences. Note that this requires about 150GB of disk space and 120GB of RAM.
```bash
(tf-wiki) python build_annoy_index.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt.uniq -ann wiki.annoy.index   
```

#### Runtime Query
An interactive session can be fired as follows:
```bash
(tf-wiki) python find_similar_sentence.py -sentences wiki.sentences.txt.uniq -ann wiki.annoy.index
```

#### Examples
`Input1`: The Japanese sample-return spacecraft Hayabusa2 arrives at the asteroid 162173 Ryugu.

`Output1`:
```
the extraterrestrial ship from deep space enters the solar system and abducts a boater on earth .
after a comet collides with the ship , dart and his crew discover a new planet beyond the orbit of pluto .
the crew are on an expedition on the mysterious planet krop tor , impossibly in orbit around a black hole .
hurtling on into deep space , jupiter 2 crash lands on an unknown planet .
first flyby of pluto , charon , nix , hydra , kerberos , and styx , first up - close images of pluto system , first images of pluto and charon 's surfaces , first spacecraft to explore the kuiper belt .
the fourth , and only , spaceship to return from mars holds an insane crew and a martian " furball " .
drax plans to fire it at earth from space .
voyager 2 sends back images of neptune and its system
young man floats in escape pod after spacecraft explodes in deep space .
crew returning from first manned moon expedition witnesses atomic war break out on earth .
```

`Input2`: Saudi Arabia lifts its ban on women driving.

`Output2:`
```
the campaign aims to ban saudi arabia from the olympics until it allows saudi arabian women to take part in sports .
in september 2017 , the saudi arabian government announced that women would receive the right to drive , effective june 2018 .
saudi arabia in 2015 .
furthermore , the saudis are blocking a proposed causeway project between qatar and the uae and a proposed gas pipeline project between qatar and kuwait , because of saudi objections , the kuwaitis are now turning to the iranians for gas .
saudi officials said that , if successful in qualifying , female competitors would be dressed " to preserve their dignity " .
in 2015 , al - waleed was criticised for offering to buy bentley cars for saudi fighter pilots involved in the saudi arabian - led intervention in yemen .
saudi arabia agreed to allow its women athletes to compete in the 2012 olympics for the first time , amidst speculation that the entire saudi team might have been disqualified on grounds of gender discrimination .
* * 280px defense of saudi arabia 1990–1991
after widespread rumors about saudi arabia going to purchase an entire atoll from maldives , saudi arabian embassy in maldives issued a statement against the rumors .
saudi royal family after welcoming the new king salman of saudi arabia , january 27 , 2015
```

`Input3`: Ice drilling allows scientists studying glaciers and ice sheets to gain access to what is beneath the ice

`Output3`:
```
ice melting on lake baikal - nasa earth observatory.jpg |spring ice melt underway on lake baikal , on 4 may : notice the ice - covered north , while much of the south already is ice - free .
the volcano protrudes from the west antarctic ice cap and is itself covered with ice in its summit area .
in addition to frozen water , mars ice caps also have frozen carbon dioxide , commonly known as dry ice .
sea ice at the north pole in 2006
a first chronology for the north greenland eemian ice drilling ( neem ) ice core .
the arctic is affected by current global warming , leading to arctic sea ice shrinkage , diminished ice in the greenland ice sheet , and arctic methane release as the permafrost thaws .
they proposed that changes in air circulation patterns have led to increased upwelling of warm , deep ocean water along the coast of antarctica and that this warm water has increased melting of floating ice shelves at the edge of the ice sheet .
greenland ice sheet
meanwhile , in the arctic , the frozen aurochs in an ice shelf start drifting into the ocean .
file : antarctic peninsula , the larsen ice shelf , and the sea ice covered waters around the region.jpg|clear view of the antarctic peninsula , the larsen ice shelf , and the sea ice covered waters around the region .
```
